# Final Project Essay
### Montana Airey
### mappac

#### I have enjoyed learning how to use github and I feel as if it is a usefull tool, especially for storing data. I appreciate that there is an easy way to keep a remote copy and to share my code with others. I think I will continue to use it going into the future. However, I am still having trouble when a conflict gets in the way of my merge or push. This is something that I want to improve my knowledge of so I can resolve the issues with less trouble. 

#### I did not completely accomplish all the goals I set out with. The main challange I ran into was the longitude scaling. The dataset is gridded by a longitude that spans 420 degrees (the globe is 360) and they did this so they could overlap the data and reduce any spatial gaps. However, this meant the scaling was off and I couldn't figure out a way to subset the longitude values to index the map correctly. My solution to this indexing problem was using the x and y lims of the matplotlib graphing axes. Yet, when I used this method I could no longer get the vectors to show up on the map. So, I have spent a great deal of time trying to find some inbetween where I could zoom in on the map and show the vectors. Unable to do this, I settled for being able to magnify regions of the map. So, I would say that the hardest problem I managed to overcome was the indexing of the map. And the vectors are the hardest problem I have yet to solve. Although, I feel that with a little more time I will be able to get both functioning and I hope to continue working on it.

#### I do think that I have developed skills that are usefull for data analysis in python. Especially after going through this project, I feel much more comfortable creating a package (and class objects) that is usefull for my reserach. I think that there are still more statistical methods that I have yet to learn but now I feel that I can use online resources and package documentations in order to learn how to use these methods. This class, and spending so much time on this project, has given me a foundation to learn the finer details of the packages/libraries/tools available to me. 