## Data Science Project Proposal
#### The Problem: In the early 2000s, the lionfish (Pterois volitans) was introduced to Floridian waters and is now considered one of the most successful vertebrate marine invaders. The species has spread throughout the Caribbean and is predicted to spread throughout Atlantic waters warmer than 10o Celsius 1 (Kimball et al., 2004): inhabited ecosystems include mangroves, coral reefs, seagrass beds, and deeper coastal waters2 (Barbour et al., 2010).  Much is known about lionfish foraging ecology and trophic impacts, but less is understood about their spatial ecology. Lionfish are highly fecund and can spawn egg masses every 2-3 days3, thus understanding the ocean currents that distribute the larvae may be important in understanding their invasion biology and future expansion. This project aims write a python package that will 1) access and format data in python 2) use the formatted data to create a map of average current vectors throughout the invaded range of lionfish. The created map will be used to visualize currents that influence the larval transport of lionfish within the Caribbean. There are several different tools that are needed to create this type of map so this package will combine them so that users only need to specify the spatial and temporal ranges of their desired map. 
#### The Data: The data will be pulled from NASA’s Physical Oceanography Distributed Active Archive Center (PODAAC) and is from the OSCAR (Ocean Surface Current Analysis Real-Time) dataset. The spatial resolution is .33 degrees latitude by .33 degrees longitude and the temporal resolution is 5 days (data spans from 1992 – present). The data points are near-surface currents, estimated from satellites and in-situ instruments.  
#### The Tools: To accomplish the goals of this project, python will be used in combination with the Iris library. The Iris library, in python, is used to access and manipulate gridded meteorological and climatological datasets, from the internet. Following the appropriate formatting of the data, the python package Cartropy will be used to create a map that is overlaid with the average current vectors of the specified region and over the specified time. Cartropy is a package that is used for geospatial data processing and analyses and in combination with matplotlib it is capable of producing maps with vectors from gridded data sets. This project will create a package that combines these existing tools and implements them for a specified area of interest. 
#### The Novelty: The proposed package is unique in that it will create current maps for the lionfish’s invaded range. The package will also combine these useful python tools and allow oceanographic current datasets to be smoothly outputted as clean maps with current vectors. 
#### The Goal: By the due date, this package will be able to take the global OSCAR data set, filtered for a region and time, and output it as a map. I would like for users to be able to put in a specific region or time period and obtain a simple, useful map of the average current vectors. Long term, I could potentially expand this package to produce maps of other relevant gridded oceanic datasets; for example, a heatmap of sea surface temperature.

#### 1.Kimball, M. E., Miller, J. M., Whitfield, P. E. & Hare, J. A. Thermal tolerance and potential distribution of invasive lionfish (Pterois volitans/miles complex) on the east coast of the United States. Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser. 283, 269–278 (2004).
#### 2.Barbour, A., Montgomery, M., Adamson, A., Díaz-Ferguson, E. & Silliman, B. Mangrove use by the invasive lionfish Pterois volitans. Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser. 401, 291–294 (2010).
#### 3.Gardner, P. G., Frazer, T. K., Jacoby, C. A. & Yanong, R. P. E. Reproductive biology of invasive lionfish (Pterois spp.). Front. Mar. Sci. 2, (2015).
